docs: accts, idp, and disclosure component (#3102)
interledger/rafiki: packages/documentation/src/content/docs/overview/concepts/accounting.mdx

<div class="overflow-table" style="border-bottom: 1px solid var(--sl-color-gray-6);">

| Account type | What the account represents | Number of accounts |
| ------------------------- | --------------------------- | ------------------ |
| [Asset liquidity](#asset-liquidity-accounts) | The value, denominated in a given asset, that Rafiki has at its disposal for sending or forwarding ILP packets | One per asset |
| [Peer liquidity](#peer-liquidity-accounts) | The credit line, denominated in the asset of your peering relationship, that you extend to a peer | One per peer |
| [Incoming payment liquidity](#incoming-payment-liquidity-accounts) | The value received from a completed incoming payment | One per incoming payment |
| [Outgoing payment liquidity](#outgoing-payment-liquidity-accounts) | The value that Rafiki will attempt to send in an outgoing payment | One per outgoing payment |
| [Wallet address liquidity](#wallet-address-liquidity-accounts) | The value of an incoming payment received to a wallet address via either SPSP or Web Monetization | One per wallet address |

</div>

#### Asset liquidity accounts

> Asset liquidity ensures there is enough value available to handle a foreign exchange transaction between you and a peer. You have one asset liquidity account for each asset you transact in.

Reviewer: Could also just be within the same rafiki instance as well

Author: Slightly revised the overview for this subsection

An asset liquidity account represents the value that Rafiki has at its disposal for sending or forwarding ILP packets. The amount in an asset liquidity account increases when packets are received and decreases when packets are sent/forwarded. Any transaction that would result in a negative balance will fail. 

:::note

> If you and your peer transact in the same asset (there's no currency conversion) and you both provide your customers only with wallet addresses denominated in that asset, then there will be no movement info/from the corresponding asset liquidity account. In this scenario, the transaction occurs over Interledger's Simple Payment Setup Protocol (SPSP).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you and your peer transact in the same asset (there's no currency conversion) and you both provide your customers only with wallet addresses denominated in that asset, then there will be no movement info/from the corresponding asset liquidity account.
```
Applicable to normal peer-to-peer packet exchange over ILP

Author: Removed SPSP line. Also added a bit more to the "For example" portion of the note.

For example, you and your peer transact in USD and only provide your customers with USD wallet addresses. 
:::

You should define and adjust asset liquidity based on your liquidity risk profile. You can deposit or withdraw asset liquidity as needed through [Rafiki Admin](/admin/admin-user-guide#edit-asset) or by using the [Backend Admin API](/admin/manage-liquidity#asset-liquidity).

<details>
<summary>Asset liquidity example - cross-currency transactions</summary>
Your Rafiki instance is configured for two assets: EUR and USD. 

* Rafiki holds an asset liquidity account for both EUR and USD. 
* You’ve set the asset scale of both currencies to 0.
* Your starting EUR liquidity is 10 and your USD liquidity is 50.

**Cross-currency transaction #1:**

<Steps>

> 1. Rafiki receives packets worth 10 EUR. Your EUR liquidity increases to 20 (10 + 10).

Reviewer: When we receive packets, we receive packets from a peer over a single asset account. we should state in which asset we are receiving packets over here

2. The current EUR-to-USD exchange rate is applied, with 10 EUR equating to 12 USD.

> 3. Rafiki sends packets worth 12 USD. Your USD liquidity decreases to 38 (50 - 12).

Reviewer: Rafiki moves funds to an incoming payment for 12 USD from the USD liquidity account.

Author: What you wrote should be step 3, and the current step 3 becomes step 4, correct?

Reviewer: Given this is from the perspective of the receiver, nothing happens when sending the fulfillment packets back. So after the funds are moved to the incoming payment from the liquidity account, there is nothing left to be done on the receiving side from the accounting perspective

Author: I've updated the steps. Please take a look to make sure I understand when I push the next set of changes.

2. The current EUR-to-USD exchange rate is applied, with 50 EUR equating to 55 USD.
3. The transaction fails. Since your USD liquidity is 38, you do not have enough liquidity to cover the transaction.
4. Your EUR liquidity reduces back to 20.
</Steps>
</details>

#### Peer liquidity accounts

Peer liquidity is the credit line you've extended to a peer. A peer liquidity account represents the amount of the line of credit that the peer still has available to them. You have one liquidity account for each peer and the account is denominated in the asset you both agreed to transact in.

The amount of credit that you extend to a peer, the asset that you transact in, and the mechanism you use to settle are just a few items that should be defined in your respective peering agreements.

:::note
A peering agreement is a legal contract between the parties involved in a peering relationship. It defines terms such as the assets involved, auth tokens, connection endpoints, and other operational details. It is not configured or managed within Rafiki but is necessary for establishing the terms under which assets are exchanged.
:::

> If a peer’s liquidity is insufficient (e.g., they’ve used up their allotted credit line), payments will not be processed. Your peer should settle with you so that you can reset their liquidity.

Reviewer: Maybe we can mention you can set up thresholds for peer (and asset accounts) to get alerted when liquidity drops below a certain amount

:::

You can add a liquidity threshold for each asset liquidity account via the [`updateAsset`](https://rafiki.dev/apis/graphql/backend/mutations/#updateasset) mutation's `liquidityThreshold` input argument.

When a threshold is entered, the [`asset.liquidity_low`](/integration/requirements/webhook-events#asset-liquidity-low) webhook event will notify you if an asset account's liquidity drops below the threshold.

You should define and adjust asset liquidity based on your liquidity risk profile. You can deposit or withdraw asset liquidity as needed through [Rafiki Admin](/admin/admin-user-guide#edit-asset) or by using the [Backend Admin API](/admin/manage-liquidity#asset-liquidity).

<details>
<summary>Asset liquidity example - cross-currency transactions</summary>
Your Rafiki instance is configured for two assets: EUR and USD.

- Rafiki holds an asset liquidity account for both EUR and USD.
- You’ve set the asset scale of both currencies to 0.
- Your starting EUR liquidity is 10 and your USD liquidity is 50.

**Cross-currency transaction #1:**

<Steps>

>   1. Rafiki receives packets from a peer. These packets are all denominated in

Reviewer: To be more specific, it is:
1. 10 EUR move between the peer liquidity account to the asset liquidity account
2. Exchange rate applied, 12 USD moves from asset liquidity account to incoming payment liquidity account

Reviewer: The second example, if we don't have 12 USD in the USD asset account, the transfer will fail

  EUR, worth €10. Your EUR liquidity increases to 20 (10 + 10). 2. The current
  EUR-to-USD exchange rate is applied, with €10 equating to $12 USD. 3. Rafiki
  moves $12 USD from your USD asset liquidity account into an incoming payment

>   liquidity account. Your USD liquidity decreases to 38 (50 - 12).

Author: Ah, yes. In some scenarios, the dollar sign messes things up unless it's escaped.

>   liquidity account. Your USD liquidity decreases to 38 (50 - 12).

Author: It's also not registering that this should be a numbered list, not a paragraph. Will fix.

</Steps>

**Cross-currency transaction #2:**

<Steps>
1. Rafiki receives packets from a peer. These packets are all denominated in EUR, worth €50. Your EUR liquidity increases to 70 (20 + 50).
2. The current EUR-to-USD exchange rate is applied, with €50 equating to $55 USD.
3. The transaction fails. Your USD liquidity account is 38, so you don't have enough liquidity to cover the transaction.
4. Your EUR liquidity reduces back to 20 (70 - 50).
</Steps>
</details>

#### Peer liquidity accounts

Peer liquidity is the credit line you've extended to a peer. A peer liquidity account represents the amount of the line of credit that the peer still has available to them. You have one liquidity account for each peer and the account is denominated in the asset you both agreed to transact in.

The amount of credit that you extend to a peer, the asset that you transact in, and the mechanism you use to settle are just a few items that should be defined in your respective peering agreements.

:::note

> A peering agreement is a legal contract between the parties involved in a peering relationship. It defines terms such as the assets involved, auth tokens, connection endpoints, and other operational details. It is not configured or managed within Rafiki but is necessary for establishing the terms under which assets are exchanged.

Reviewer: The auth tokens, connection endpoints are managed by Rafiki, so we can remove that part from the note

:::

If a peer’s liquidity is insufficient (e.g., they’ve used up their allotted credit line), payments will not be processed. Your peer should settle with you so that you can reset their liquidity.

You can add a liquidity threshold for each peer liquidity account via the [`updatePeer`](https://rafiki.dev/apis/graphql/backend/mutations/#updatepeer) mutation's `liquidityThreshold` input argument.

When a threshold is entered, the [`peer.liquidity_low`](/integration/requirements/webhook-events#peer-liquidity-low) webhook event will notify you if a peer's liquidity drops below the threshold.

You should define and adjust each peer's liquidity based on your liquidity risk profile. You can deposit or withdraw peer liquidity as needed through [Rafiki Admin](/admin/admin-user-guide#edit-peer) or by using the [Backend Admin API](/admin/manage-liquidity#peer-liquidity).

<details>
<summary>Peer liquidity example</summary>
You and Cloud Nine Wallet are peers. You’ve agreed to extend Cloud Nine Wallet a line of credit worth 100.00 USD. This means Cloud Nine Wallet has 100.00 in their peer liquidity account on your Rafiki instance.

> Your Rafiki instance can send packets that total up to 100.00 to wallet addresses issued by Cloud Nine Wallet. When the 100.00 is used up, Cloud Nine Wallet settles with you by sending 100.00 via the shared settlement mechanism outlined in your peering agreement. When you receive the funds, you reset their liquidity in Rafiki.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Rafiki instance can receive packets that total up to 100.00 to wallet addresses issued by Cloud Nine Wallet. When the 100.00 is used up, Cloud Nine Wallet settles with you by sending 100.00 via the shared settlement mechanism outlined in your peering agreement. When you receive the funds, you reset their liquidity in Rafiki.
```
Peer liquidity decreases for the recipient of the packets

</details>

#### Payment liquidity accounts

Payment liquidity is the amount that's available because of an incoming or outgoing payment. Rafiki has three types of payment liquidity accounts.

<div class="overflow-table" style="border-bottom: 1px solid var(--sl-color-gray-6);">

| Payment type                                         | Purpose                                                    |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Incoming](#incoming-payment-liquidity-accounts)     | For incoming payments created via the Open Payments APIs   |
| [Outgoing](#outgoing-payment-liquidity-accounts)     | For outgoing payments created via the Open Payments APIs   |
| [Wallet address](#wallet-address-liquidity-accounts) | For incoming payments created via SPSP or Web Monetization |

</div>

##### Incoming payment liquidity accounts

> An incoming payment liquidity account represents the value received from a completed incoming payment. When an incoming payment is created via the <LinkOut href="https://openpayments.dev/apis/resource-server/operations/create-incoming-payment/">Open Payments APIs</LinkOut>, a corresponding liquidity account is automatically created. You will have one liquidity account per incoming payment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An incoming payment liquidity account represents the value received for an incoming payment. When an incoming payment is created via the <LinkOut href="https://openpayments.dev/apis/resource-server/operations/create-incoming-payment/">Open Payments APIs</LinkOut>, a corresponding liquidity account is automatically created. You will have one liquidity account per incoming payment.
```
(Doesn't have to be completed)

> An incoming payment liquidity account represents the value received from a completed incoming payment. When an incoming payment is created via the <LinkOut href="https://openpayments.dev/apis/resource-server/operations/create-incoming-payment/">Open Payments APIs</LinkOut>, a corresponding liquidity account is automatically created. You will have one liquidity account per incoming payment.

Reviewer: The account creation part actually happens when the first packet for the incoming payment is received.

The liquidity account isn’t used again after the payment completes, but its record remains in your accounting database. When a new incoming payment occurs, a new liquidity account is created.

##### Outgoing payment liquidity accounts

An outgoing payment liquidity account represents the value available to send in an outgoing payment. When an outgoing payment is created via the <LinkOut href="https://openpayments.dev/apis/resource-server/operations/create-outgoing-payment/">Open Payments APIs</LinkOut>, a corresponding liquidity account is automatically created. You will have one liquidity account per outgoing payment.

You are notified of created, completed, and failed outgoing payments by listening for the appropriate [webhook events](/integration/requirements/webhook-events/#outgoing-payments). Liquidity must be deposited into the outgoing payment account before the payment can be processed.

> Since Rafiki doesn’t hold funds, any excess liquidity that remains after the outgoing payment completes must be withdrawn. While we recommend refunding the excess to the sender, the choice is ultimately up to you.

Reviewer: Do you think we should explain why there could be excess liquidity?

When a threshold is entered, the [`asset.liquidity_low`](/integration/requirements/webhook-events#asset-liquidity-low) webhook event will notify you if an asset account's liquidity drops below the threshold.

You should define and adjust asset liquidity based on your liquidity risk profile. You can deposit or withdraw asset liquidity as needed through [Rafiki Admin](/admin/admin-user-guide#edit-asset) or by using the [Backend Admin API](/admin/manage-liquidity#asset-liquidity).

<details>
<summary>Asset liquidity example - cross-currency transactions</summary>
Your Rafiki instance is configured for two assets: EUR and USD.

- Rafiki holds an asset liquidity account for both EUR and USD.
- You’ve set the asset scale of both currencies to 0.
- Your starting EUR liquidity is 10 and your USD liquidity is 50.

**Cross-currency transaction #1:**

<Steps>

1. Rafiki receives packets from a peer. These packets are all denominated in EUR, worth €10. 10 EUR move from the peer's liquidity account on your Rafiki instance to your EUR asset liquidity account. Your EUR liquidity increases to 20 (10 + 10).

> 2. The EUR-to-USD exchange rate is applied, with €10 equating to \$12 USD. Since your starting USD liquidity is 50, your USD asset liquidity account can cover the transfer of \$12 USD to an incoming payment liquidity account. Your USD liquidity decreases to 38 (50 - 12). If your USD liquidity account had less than \$12, the transfer would fail.

Author: Makes sense

Rafiki ensures that the total credits to a settlement account will not exceed its total debits.

<details>
<summary>Settlement account example</summary>
You deposit \$10,000 into a peer's liquidity account, meaning you've extended a credit line of \$10,000 to your peer.

Your peer liquidity account balance is \$10,000 and your USD settlement account balance is now -\$10,000.

An incoming payment from your peer for \$100 is created, meaning your peer is using \$100 of their line of credit. Since Rafiki doesn't hold funds, you must withdraw the liquidity and credit the amount to the recipient's account on your ledger.

Now, your peer liquidity account's balance is \$9,900 and your USD settlement account's balance is -\$9,900.

</details>

A negative balance on a settlement account means you've deposited more funds into Rafiki than you've withdrawn. The closer a settlement account's balance is to 0, the more likely it is you need to settle with your peer for the amount owed and then deposit the amount back into Rafiki.

## Accounting databases

### TigerBeetle

> TigerBeetle is a high-performance distributed financial accounting database used by Rafiki’s backend service to store account balance data at the ILP layer. Both liquidity and settlement accounts in Rafiki correspond to TigerBeetle credit and debit accounts, respectively.

Reviewer: "at the ILP layer."  -> maybe we can leave this out, since it stores all accounting data, including things like withdrawals which are not specific to ILP

<details>
<summary>Peer liquidity example</summary>
You and Cloud Nine Wallet are peers. You’ve agreed to extend Cloud Nine Wallet a line of credit worth \$100.00 USD. This means Cloud Nine Wallet has \$100.00 in their peer liquidity account on your Rafiki instance. Your Rafiki instance can receive packets that total up to \$100.00 from Cloud Nine Wallet. When the \$100.00 is used up, Cloud Nine Wallet settles with you by sending \$100.00 via the shared settlement mechanism outlined in your peering agreement. When you receive the funds, you reset their liquidity in Rafiki.

> </details>

Reviewer: Just below on L153, the purpose of the wallet address payment should say for funds received via SPSP (instead of SPSP or Web Monetization)
